documentation/refs.md, before:

# some references

https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-019-14105-1

https://www.nature.com/articles/s42003-018-0192-6

https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-019-14105-1#change-history

"Trophic assignments were assigned to a scale of 0–5 (Archaea, Bacteria, and fungi, primary producers, primary consumers, secondary consumers and tertiary consumer)""

https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/17451000.2016.1142091

# some oomyceetes refs

https://www.int-res.com/articles/dao_oa/d114p189.pdf

https://orca.cardiff.ac.uk/130012/12/Matthewsamneded130012.pdf

https://canalrivertrust.org.uk/enjoy-the-waterways/fishing/caring-for-our-fish/guide-to-fish-health/saprolegnia-in-wild-salmonids

diclina, parasitica, aquaculture
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1749461313000286
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1749461313000286

oomycetes parasitizing diatoms eDNA
https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fmicb.2018.02918/full

saprolegnia parasitica in marine breams?
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/334490815_First_Report_of_Saprolegnia_parasitica_from_a_Marine_Species_Gilthead_Seabream_Sparus_aurata_in_Brackish_Water_Conditions

https://digitalcommons.library.umaine.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1279&context=honors

# marine fungi

fungi in the marine environment - open questions, unsolved problems 
https://journals.asm.org/doi/10.1128/mBio.01189-18

https://www.researchgate.net/publication/282428544_A_world_without_parasites_Exploring_the_hidden_ecology_of_infection

https://www-jstor-org.offcampus.lib.washington.edu/stable/27696011?seq=7#metadata_info_tab_contents

saprolegnia review
https://www.cabi.org/isc/datasheet/71941#tooverview

see refs 6+7
https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fvets.2020.00083/full

general fish disease book
Fish diseases and disorders. Volume 3: viral, bacterial and fungal infections.

catch and release of salmon worsens fungal spread
https://cdnsciencepub.com/doi/pdf/10.1139/cjfas-2021-0089

1968 heated dispute about aquatic vs estuary saprolegnia
https://www.nature.com/articles/217875a0

alaska Fish and Game disease overview
https://www.adfg.alaska.gov/static/species/disease/pdfs/fish_disease_book.pdf

freshwater saprolegnia worse in warm months siberia
https://aslopubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/lno.11550

halophytophthroa eelgrass pathogen
https://www.readcube.com/articles/10.3389/fmicb.2020.01467

Anisolpidiales pathogen of brown algae
https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/09670262.2016.1252857

Researchers are often surprised to find that many fungi detected in marine environments are already well characterized from soil or plant habitats, even when those marine samples are collected from locations far from obvious terrestrial inputs. Tempting as it may be to interpret these data as evidence that a large proportion of marine fungi are metabolically inactive flotsam (as spores or relictual DNA), evidence suggests otherwise. Strong correlations with abiotic environmental conditions (8, 21) and gene expression data (22) suggest that at least some fungi display a truly amphibious ability

press
https://www.kitsapgov.com/pw/Documents/Kitsap_Salmon_Guide_Teachable_Moments.pdf

https://www.hakaimagazine.com/news/fuzzy-fish/

Commit message:

produced some plots, added summary table of oomycetes from lit

documentation/refs.md, after:

# some references

https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-019-14105-1

https://www.nature.com/articles/s42003-018-0192-6

https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-019-14105-1#change-history

"Trophic assignments were assigned to a scale of 0–5 (Archaea, Bacteria, and fungi, primary producers, primary consumers, secondary consumers and tertiary consumer)""

https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/17451000.2016.1142091

# some oomyceetes refs

saprolegnia strains are broad spectrum pathogens
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1878614613001311

aquatic fungi in iraqi estuary 
https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/BF00032723

https://www.int-res.com/articles/dao_oa/d114p189.pdf

https://orca.cardiff.ac.uk/130012/12/Matthewsamneded130012.pdf

https://canalrivertrust.org.uk/enjoy-the-waterways/fishing/caring-for-our-fish/guide-to-fish-health/saprolegnia-in-wild-salmonids

diclina, parasitica, aquaculture
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1749461313000286
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1749461313000286

oomycetes parasitizing diatoms eDNA
https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fmicb.2018.02918/full

saprolegnia parasitica in marine breams?
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/334490815_First_Report_of_Saprolegnia_parasitica_from_a_Marine_Species_Gilthead_Seabream_Sparus_aurata_in_Brackish_Water_Conditions

https://digitalcommons.library.umaine.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1279&context=honors

# marine fungi

fungi in the marine environment - open questions, unsolved problems
https://journals.asm.org/doi/10.1128/mBio.01189-18

https://www.researchgate.net/publication/282428544_A_world_without_parasites_Exploring_the_hidden_ecology_of_infection

https://www-jstor-org.offcampus.lib.washington.edu/stable/27696011?seq=7#metadata_info_tab_contents

Unaccounted mortality in salmon fisheries:
non-retention in gillnets and effects on estimates of
spawners
Matthew R. Baker*1 and Daniel E. Schindler1

terrestrial oomycetes in philipine estuaries
https://asbp.org.ph/wp-content/uploads/2020/09/PJSB-IJD2-2020-007.pdf

saprolegnia review
https://www.cabi.org/isc/datasheet/71941#tooverview

aphanomyces persist in salt water?
https://www.jstor.org/stable/3759908

big pathology book - still no answer to where salmonids infected
http://dl.uncw.edu/digilib/Biology/Fungi/Taxonomy%20and%20Systematics/Padgett%20Book/BIOLOGY/CHAPTER_29/Text_29.pdf

see refs 6+7
https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fvets.2020.00083/full

general fish disease book
Fish diseases and disorders. Volume 3: viral, bacterial and fungal infections.

catch and release of salmon worsens fungal spread
https://cdnsciencepub.com/doi/pdf/10.1139/cjfas-2021-0089

1968 heated dispute about aquatic vs estuary saprolegnia
https://www.nature.com/articles/217875a0

alaska Fish and Game disease overview
https://www.adfg.alaska.gov/static/species/disease/pdfs/fish_disease_book.pdf

freshwater saprolegnia worse in warm months siberia
https://aslopubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/lno.11550

halophytophthroa eelgrass pathogen
https://www.readcube.com/articles/10.3389/fmicb.2020.01467

Anisolpidiales pathogen of brown algae
https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/09670262.2016.1252857

Researchers are often surprised to find that many fungi detected in marine environments are already well characterized from soil or plant habitats, even when those marine samples are collected from locations far from obvious terrestrial inputs. Tempting as it may be to interpret these data as evidence that a large proportion of marine fungi are metabolically inactive flotsam (as spores or relictual DNA), evidence suggests otherwise. Strong correlations with abiotic environmental conditions (8, 21) and gene expression data (22) suggest that at least some fungi display a truly amphibious ability

press
https://www.kitsapgov.com/pw/Documents/Kitsap_Salmon_Guide_Teachable_Moments.pdf

https://www.hakaimagazine.com/news/fuzzy-fish/
